The thing with which I want to start in this course is to hook up navigation, to either load recipes or
the shopping list.
Now we will later learn a way to do this in the way it is meant to be done but the solution we will
agree is now also is very creative and
not bad.
I will use ngIf
to only load one of the two sections at a time,
so somehow in my app component probably because that is where I include both, here
I will need to manage which one should be displayed and I should determine which one is displayed in the
header component,
so I should kind of pass the information which link was clicked there to my app component, so that
I can then switch a property there to only display one of these two components.
I will admit that this task involves multiple steps,
it doesn't cover anything you haven't learnt thus far though, so definitely take this as a challenge
to implement such a navigation on your own,
emitting some event in the header which allows us to determine which component should be displayed here
in the app component.
Now's your chance to pause the video, we'll do it together thereafter.
So were you successful?
Here is my solution, how we could get this to work the way we want it to work.
I'll start in the header component template, here
we got these two links and I want to attach some click listeners to these links.
Here I will say onSelect and I will pass a string
here, recipe maybe, we can of course pass our own data to the methods we execute here and here,
I will select another one or add another click listener and I will say onSelect shopping list.
Now you could of course also work with numbers there or fire two totally different methods.
So that is my onSelect method,
now in the header component, I of course need to implement onSelect and we get an argument here,
we pass it here right,
we get a string on what to select.
So maybe let's name it feature and that will be a string,
so let's assign the type string here by adding a colon and string thereafter and now as I said, I want
to emit my own event.
Hey, we learned how to do this,
first of all I'll need to add a new property which I'll name feature selected,
you can of course choose another name if you want.
This should be a new event emitter and now remember, event emitter is imported from @angular/core,
that's a generic type and we will pass string here,
the feature which was selected in the end and we have to add parentheses to instantiate this,
so to create an object based on the event emitter class. That is our feature
selected event,
now I want to use this property which now holds this event emitter as a value to emit an event whenever
we click one of the buttons and I will then emit feature,
so this string we receive from these method calls here in our template. Well with that in place, the
missing piece is to enable this event to be listened to from outside of this component.
So we have to attach something to this property to make it listenable from the parent component,
the app component in this case, that something is the @output decorator, don't forget the parentheses
which also needs to be imported from @angular/core, @output enables us to use this event or
to listen to it from the parent component.
So in the app component which is the parent component which adds app header here, I will listen
to the feature selected event and then here, I will execute onNavigate let's say and of course, I'm
interested in the data I'm receiving from feature selected,
so I can get access to it with $event,
this protected name we could use in the template to get access to any data an event passes to us.
Now just because this might be confusing, if you don't specify $event here but other data
like we did here right,
we kind of overrode $event, that doesn't actually override it,
you simply determine which data you want to pass to your own method and $event may also be
used as a second argument here, $event will always refer to the event data anywhere between
these quotation marks here,
so no matter which place it has in the method argument list here.
So I just wanted to make sure that this doesn't lead to any confusion.
So let's turn this back to $event to get access to the data we actually pass in our
own event and now in the app.component.ts file, I will add onNavigate and here, I will receive
the where should we navigate to information. So you may choose any name you want,
I'll go with feature again, this is the feature we want to navigate to and now we should make sure that we
actually store this feature.
So maybe here, we should say loaded feature because we store which feature should be displayed
and initially, that might be our recipes and maybe to make sure that we always use the same string, let's
check it
here, recipe is the name here, recipe feature,
so let's go with recipe here too
and then in onNavigate, I will set this loaded feature equal to the feature we receive here as an argument.
And you could even omit this method and directly set loaded feature equal $event here
but I will go for the longer approach to be very explicit about what's happening here.
So with that, we're getting this loaded feature,
now we can use ngIf to determine which of the two components should be displayed.
App recipes should be displayed if loaded feature equals recipe and shopping list should be displayed
whenever loaded feature let's say does not equal recipe,
so that will also catch cases where it somehow is set to something else.
So with that, we're using ngIf,
now let's see if that works.
We only see the recipe now
and if I click on a shopping list, we see the shopping list and the other way around.
So now navigation is kind of working, again
we will later improve this but for now, that is a great solution.
Now let's move on to making the list items here real list items living in their own component.